Introduction: Anti-Gravity Yoga Studio Location
Background
"The data tells a compelling story," says Carin Gorrell, editor-in-chief of Yoga Journal. In recent years, the number of yoga practitioners has increased to more than 36 million, while annual spending on yoga classes and related accessories has risen to $16 billion. Yoga is a thriving, growing industry.
My client is a professional yoga mentor and wishes to tap into his entrepreneurial instincts to create an entire brand around his teaching style and philosophy. He specializes in aerial yoga - an artform of gravity-defying poses in a silky sling-like hammock that supports full body weight and aids in accomplishing more than one can do with regular yoga. This technique is relatively new and the territory unexplored so far in the United States.

Problem
My client wishes to set up an aerial yoga studio but creating a niche in an already established industry is a big challenge. My client feels that to introduce these out-of-the box workouts, there is no better place than Chicago downtown. Chicago is divided in community areas by direction where central side has core business offices and North side, west side, south side. Client from his experience and research, came up with North side which is a densely populated with middle-class and upper-class demographics. This brings us to the biggest obstacle of finding the perfect location in the North side neighborhood where it is already swarming with yoga studios and gyms. Since the existing workout centers are a competition to my client's entrepreneurial venture, it is best that we find a location in neighborhoods where there are none to minimum number of such fitness studios and densely populated.

Target Audience/ Stakeholders
This project benefits all entrepreneurs who wish to make their mark in the Yoga industry with their unique style of this discipline. There are 11 types of yoga and innumerable hybrid forms that make this domain open to budding businesses. This project guides them through the process of overcoming the biggest hurdles - finding the perfect location with minimum competition.
